So rounding and switching what is the difference as you see in the picture right here.
We have multiple devices and these two different things to our network.
So switching is basically happening on the same network meaning that with internally within your own
network whereas routing is communication between different networks and that is why you see these two
devices hub and switch is on their own network whereas Aurora is connecting them so what is the different
devices that we're going to talk about.
We're going to talk about a hub switch a router and a repeater
So what is a hub will a hub is a very dumb device as you see in the picture here.
You have probably seen one before or you maybe use one in your own network right now but what a hub
to us is basically just received data and then send it out to everyone connected to the hub and then
it is simply up to the computers to decide will they want to accept or reject this communication.
And these network packages this means that if you are sending some information to use a B then if you
have a malicious user in the device C then unless his computer rejects the information to use a b he
will actually also get that information because the hub doesn't care who it sends to it just say OK
here is some data and it just push it out to everyone.
Then we have a switch.
This is truly called a smart hub because it does a bit more than a hub.
This one keeps track on the different computers and devices connected to it.
It does so by making tracks in a table of the MAC addresses.
We have discussed mega address in previous sections and this is Layer 2 and it was a model.
So the switch will start to record what kind of MAC address is being used from the different port within
the device and then it will keep track on what port a specific MAC address is connected to because then
it knows that if some information come from this MAC address to this MAC address then it needs to go
through these two ports.
But this will happen over time so when at the beginning of using a switch when you connect your devices
it is simply just acting like a hub until it starts to figure out which mega dresses belong to which
ports then we have a repeater a repeater is compared to routers and not routers compared to switches
and hubs.
It is used for making the signal stronger.
And as you see on the picture right here we have a repeater at the end of the range of this wireless
network.
And because we have this repeater then it is capable of receiving messages from this computer right
here and then enhance the signal so they can reach reach the computers.
That is actually without the range of this main point right here.
And it can still do so in two different ways.
It can amplify meaning that it just smack their message out with more power and it can do signal regeneration
meaning that it tries to clean up the signal because when our message to transfer either true to our
true cable there will be some magnetic interference and this electric mid-day interference that will
it and then destroy the package.
And that is why we have each these ranges because at some point the device is simply not able to reach
out anymore.
So by having this repeater it can enhance the signal so that we can reach a much larger area.
So we can set these repeaters up on your network at specific locations where you want to signal to be
in hands.
This can be where you have thick walls or where you simply just have too long of a path between your
devices and your main router.
For example if you have your router located at one another house and you want a signal at the very end
of your ground maybe into rats or something then you can use it's a repeater.
And at the ending we have the rotors.
These are the real smart devices and the ones that make all this networking possible because what a
router is compared to a switch and a hub is a very very smart device.
It's managed all the traffic between our internally and the public network.
So around I actually have to eyepiece it has the public IP which is the IP that the Internet is seeing.
And then the head has a private IP IP which is the IP used by your devices on your internal network
and most routers also have build and firewalls.
This means that you can manage your firewall rules based on who is allowed to connect and move packages
to and from your network and the public whereas switches and hubs simply doesn't have such things.
It will just allow everything to happen and then most rioters also have what is called DHEA piece of
a building.
And what such server is doing is to
make your computers have a piece because once you connect to a network as we discussed in previous lectures
about iPods and mac addresses you computer will only have a mac address.
So it needs an IP from somewhere and that somewhere is to be good from such DSP DHB server which is
built into your router.
So what your computer will be doing when it is connected to the network it will use this flow right
here where we first discover we tried to find where the server is located then this is located probably
within your router and then you're allowed to see this and says OK.
You need a new IP then it will make an offer.
Use this IP because this IP is the free.
And then you will just make a request your computer on this and say okay fine I can use this IP and
then you're ratable and which has this the HP server will acknowledge and say OK fine I will note that
down and you are now assigned to this IP.
So this is basically how you get an IP internally.
So now we have quickly discussed the four devices if you want you can look them up yourself and see
all the specific terms.
Maybe look up the device that you have on your network and all to see what is actually on your network
what a configuration is possible then your order in order to to understand this a bit better.
So now we are ready to move on and I will see you next picture.